Asus MeMO Pad 7
Hi everyone. So today we're taking a look at the
Asus MeMo  Pad 7. Now this is a 7in
tablet retailing at under £99. It first came onto the market
in June 2014 so it's certainly no slouch
from a performance point of view packing
a 1.86GHz
Intel Atom quad-core processor Z3745.
We've looked at this processor before  and come away impressed so we certainly should expect
reasonable performance from this Asus
pad. So let's run through Asus MeMO Pad 7
the rest of the specs. First of all, obviously this is a 7-inch tablet
with a 1280x800 pixel display. It's running a 2-megapixel front-facing
camera
just about good enough for doing Skype
on reasonably well Asus MeMO Pad 7
and a rear facing 5-megapixel camera
which produces reasonable shots for  a
5-megapixel shooter,
around on par I think with the Nvidia Shield tablet's
camera. As I say, it's running the Intel
Atom Z3745 processor
clocked at 1.86GHz. Running Android
4.4
it also has  A2211 BG and N. No dual band support here that I can see.
I'm afraid there's no GPS, Bluetooth, NFC,
infrared
no DLNA, no wifi, and so on. There's no 3G here either. This is very much just a wifi
tablet.
You will find an accelerometer and an
ambient light sensor in here
but none of the other additional items
that you could use for say, fitness
tracking.
That said this is a £99 tablet so we
shouldn't expect Asus MeMO Pad 7
lots of bells and whistles here. What we
should expect is a
good quality tablet that provides good
performance
at a reasonable price.
Well that's the hardware out of the way but what about the software?
Well just like the Zenfone 4 we took a look at a couple months ago
Asus have done a really good job here
creating a software suite you'd actually
want to use
in addition to the Google apps pre-installed. Now
what they've kind of done is taken all of those apps that you would use from Google
and created their own versions of them.
Now in past devices we've seen from other
manufacturers this has not gone particularly well usually.
Usually you end up with apps that either
don't have a common look and feel  between
them like they've been developed by
different third-party developers and
bought by that manufacturer, Asus MeMO Pad 7
or worse still they actually have less
functionality
than their Google siblings. For Asus they've really pushed the boat out in creating a
software suite here
which feels intelligent, that feels like it's part of a suite
of tools designed to work with this tablet. It's really nice to see
and it shows a level of competency which we don't normally expect from Asus MeMO Pad 7
companies like Asus. Normally we expect
shove the hardware out the door
with a bit of software and that will
do the job. Asus have really pushed the
boat out here and gone above and beyond I think really in creating
software
for the lower end of the market tablets.
It's really good to see
and these apps are actually very good to use as well. They all work
just as you'd expect. Now running Android
4.4
everything is pretty much the muchness here from an Android operating system  point of
view
but it's been given a lovely material
designed look and feel.
Some might say way before Google even
started talking about material design
Asus was already there kind of delivering it. It's really nice and it
creates a feel to this tablet which is
unique
amongst all of those clone tablets out there as it were. Asus MeMO Pad 7
Seen one Android 7-inch tablet, seen them all.  Apart from on the Asus where
you haven't seen this before really. It's
slick, it's lovely to work with
and it feels integrated in just the right kind of way
never getting in the way of the functionality of Android but actually enhancing it's visual
look and feel.
In some respects I actually find using
this interface from Asus
easier than using the standard Google
Experience interface
because everything just feels that much
crisper here. The performance of the Asus
tablet is Asus MeMO Pad 7
exceptional actually. Again we're seeing
these Intel chips coming through now
and they really have plenty of power
under the hood. At no point did we find
the tablet slowing down,
stalling, lagging or anything like that. Its  gaming performance
is exceptional for a price point that
this is reaching.
It really is very, very good. Now don't
expect this to be playing
the very latest say, Gameloft games at the
very highest quality bar
those games set. But do expect to get a solid frame rate at Asus MeMO Pad 7
medium settings that you really cannot
grumble about
and that's probably the biggest thing
you can say here. There's nothing to
complain about with this Asus tablet.
It really is just beautifully made at this price point.
It's quite a remarkable piece of equipment
in my opinion. Now
you could level some criticism at the
way the buttons have been positioned
on the side of the Asus tablet because
it's not
the best placement I've ever seen in my life. The Asus MeMO Pad 7
main grumble I have there is that the power button and the volume rocker feel like
they're switched round in comparison to every other tablet on the market.
But this is a minor quibble in what is
an excellent
Android device. If you're in the market
for a £99
and under tablet you really should take a
look at this Asus MeMO Pad 7-inch
device.
It does feel to me like it offers fantastic bang for your buck.
If you're not in the market for a
high-performance device but you just want Asus MeMO Pad 7
one that works competently,
that can handle all of the apps and games you throw at it and provides a
really nice interface for Android then do
take a look at this tablet.
It really is a corking piece of kit.
Thanks for watching. Don't forget you
can pledge $1 a month on Patreon
to help support The Androidizen, keeping us 100%
independent, an honest opinion direct
from the UK.
If you pledge one dollar a month you'll
be entered into our prize pool
to win cool items from our review bag. Also
don't forget to like, subscribe and
comment.
We love to chat.
Asus MeMO Pad 7